Hello and welcome to the next work for example
here we have the window with the animated raindrops.
So the result is going to look like this.
I want to already now that we are looking at this
go over a couple of the things that I want to create with the shader
for a lot of shader is it is very important to look
at reference and and while you're looking at the reference already,
thinking about how to create the effect that you want to make
the shader that you're going to create this
specifically the shader on the glass playing here
and that is made up of different parts
to one part very simply there are these
4th of the window that have a gradient
of roughness
to simulate a film of tiny droplets
and then there are the animated drops
but these also
Are made out of two different parts.
There are obviously the drops that are streaming down the window
but also there is another layer of drops that are just sitting there
and growing and shrinking in size where another drop is flowing over them.
So these are the two layers of animated droplets that I want to create
and the way these are structured
is that they have specific lanes
so the drops never cross each other's path.
But there is a lot of variation in the length of the drops and their speed.
So now that we talked a little bit about how I want to achieve this effect,
let's start with the shader and just as per usual,
I'm just starting by deleting the material
and starting fresh
as always. I just start with the coronets space
so I grabbed the texture corner node
and what I want to use is the object coordinates.
And first I want to create the lanes for the drops.
So I just use a separate X Y Z node
to get the X. Component
and then use the same old trick
with multiplication
and then a fraction operation
that gives me already the individual lanes.
And then additionally to the fraction operation,
I also want a snap operation to get a different value for each lane.
The instrument has to be chosen to one.
Then it's the same scale as for the fraction operations.
If I now on top of this snapped cord and value,
I add a noise texture,
a white noise
I get a Iran and value which is different for each of the lanes
and that is what I'm going to use later on.
So that's already the basic structure of the lanes done.
But of course the raindrops don't just streamed down perfectly straight
so before this,
I also want to introduce some distortion.
I do this the same way as always with a nice texture
that I use
in a linear light operation on top of the coordinate space.
I can just adjust the scale and detail
to give some subtle variation.
First I want to focus on the raindrops that are streaming down the window
and for those I'm going to define the lanes as a cellular pattern.
The X component for each cell
is already what we have from this fraction operation.
So now I have to work on the Y component as well
and the Y component is something that is going to be a little bit more difficult
because this plays into how the animation works.
Let's just first take a look at the Y component as it is.
I want to also use the fraction operation
on the Y component in the same way
but here the cellular ization should be different for each individual lane
for now I'll just add in the fraction operation so you can see what I mean
when I just use a combined
with the note and use this as the Y component
and what we previously had is the X component.
You can see the vector map of the cells that we get
not to change the Y component for each individual lane.
There's a couple of things I want to do
first. That's again just the length of these streaks by adding a multiply node
this way can scale how these tricks look.
As I said,
this should be different for each lane and that's where we can use this white noise.
I just choose a separate RGB. No, because we need multiple different random values
and then I split the color output
so for
adjusting the length.
Let's just take the right channel but I don't just want to plug it in
as it is because the random value here is just between zero and one.
Instead. I want to add a map range before
and that way I can specifically define
the range of the different skills that I want
now I don't want it to multiply by zero ever
because that would result in an infinitely long streak.
Instead I want
The minimum to be something like 0.1
Which means that the street
increases in length by a factor of 10.
But now because we simply scaled the component depending on the lane,
they all got their zero point still at the center.
So I also want to apply shift.
So I just do that after the scaling using a subtract operation
and for that use the second round of value.
And now let's introduce some actual animation.
As you have seen before
for some procedural animation, I just add a value, input, note
and type in hash frame
that gives me the value of the current frame
and that I can use as a time parameter.
Now the animation type that I want here is having the droplets flow down the window
and achieve that by offsetting the coordinates.
So here I just
use an ad operation
and as you can see
adding a higher value,
shift the drops
lower down.
So if I just scale
the frame parameter
to change the speed
with the divide operation
and connected this
you can see that it already gives us some animation
because of the fact that we add this
offset after we scaled the coordinates for the length
every time. The
opposite value
is incremental by exactly one. So if I go from 1 to 2 or three
it looks exactly the same.
And for that reason
if I just plug this scale value in here we get a reputation on the pattern
After exactly 100 frames.
If that is an effect that you want
you can that way actually loop the animation
without any nasty jumping that you can see.
But here instead of having a loop mobile animation
I want something that does not repeat
and also I want some more variation in the speed of these.
The only variation in the speed right now
comes from the different length.
So if I change the regime and the length to something
less obvious I can see that they move approximately with the same speed.
So on top of this I also want to introduce
some more variation and the speed of each lane.
And to do that I use the third random value.
So I add another map range. Know to be able to control the speed,
plug the random value into it
and then change the two men and two max to the speed parameters.
That should be the limits
What I have right now. 100.
It's what I'm going to use as my slowest speed.
I just said that as the
maximum
And as my fastest speed which is a lower value, I just choose something like 40
which is going to be this fast.
And then just by using the opera of this map range known
as the division,
I get some more variation
and also
as you can see
there is no perfect loop anymore but that is
fine because I rather want something that does not repeat
And if I now change the end frame to something like 10,000
you can see that it nicely plays over the whole animation
and there was no exact repetition anymore
and from this year you can already see where this is going.
I do want to create some more variation in the
white component here though because right now on each lane,
every single streak of water has the same length
to break this up. Just a little bit,
I'm going to
use the fraction to coordinates,
Then multiply them by
something like 1.5
and then use another fraction operation on top.
And as you can see
that breaks the pattern up a little bit
And it gets more obvious when they lower this value to something like 1.1
because then I have this additional small streak here
which is exactly
In this case 10% of the length of the other streak
Setting it to 1.5, makes it less obvious
but still breaks down the pattern a little bit.
Additionally I'm going to add another multiply note after that to be able to scale
the Y component of each
droplet
for now just to keep it at one.
But later on we can change that.
I'll just collapse
this little segment here
so it takes less space
and now we have the cells for a running drop that's ready to go
next. We have to create their shape.
The main wage of the droplets is obviously going
to be shifted to the bottom of the cells.
So when I center the coordinates
like I did previously with a subtract note
I only subtract 0.5 in the x direction
two centuries on the x axis
but on the Y axis
I'm only going to subtract a little bit because I want the center to be very low.
It's take 0.05
but then I still want the Y coordinate to go all the way to negative one.
So it's stretched asymmetrically to the top and to the bottom.
So at this point I separate the X. Y. Z components.
Mhm.
And to stretch them differently. I need a mask of what right now is less than zero.
So I'll just take a math node
said to less than zero
and then I have a mask of everything that is lower than zero in the Y component
to stretch the accordance. I need another vector math note
I just set this to multiply
That's first choose one
and then you can see that change in this nicely stretches the coronets
and now with this mosque I can build the stretch director here.
I just use a mix RGB known
which is just the simplest way to mask together
a vector map even though it's meant for colours.
And as the
first input
which is going to be in the places
above the center,
I'm just going to choose
The victory of 111
because I don't want any stretching
in this part. I only want distraction in the lower part.
So for the second input,
I'm going to build a vector
with the combined X Y Z note
And for the excellent quality I just choose one
because I don't want any stretching in that whatsoever.
But the white component has to correspond to the offset valley that it chose here.
So for that I'm just going to add in another value. No
Actually Saturday 2 0.05
and plug that in the Y component
to keep it consistent with the previous setup. I'm also going to
take the combine X Y Z node
with
this exact value
and 0.5 in the x component
for the subtraction.
That way we can control these values with the same input
And I also use this for the stretching.
We have to take a quick look at how this is actually used.
So to actually see what we are doing.
I'm just going to use a
length operation
and this right now is the exact opposite of what I need because
the vector map is multiplied with a small value is actually stretched,
but I want the value to be squished so I have to get the inverse factor,
but actually I can just simply change the multiplication to a division
and then I get the exact effect that I wanted,
I want the bottom of these streaks to be nice and round
and then from the center stretch along the y axis to the top,
dragging along the street behind.
And as you can see when we adjust this,
it still works
But .05 is already going in the right direction.
If I now go back to the multiplication factor that we set up earlier,
you can see that the higher value squishes these streaks down a little bit
and right now maybe they're a little bit too long
so I just squish them down by a factor of two.
Now we have the basis for the running streaks done,
but it's
actually already started converting them into the drop shader.
The shader is going to be mainly based on using a bump map.
So let's try and create something like a bump map for these raindrops
going from this
length value here.
I want to
first invert this map
by subtracting it from something like
is there a point to
and after the operation
there are still negative values in the black space.
So additionally
I had another mouth No, it's sad to smooth the maximum
Comparing it with zero
and jan increasing the distance.
It also makes it a little bit more smooth than the transition
for now. I'll just plug this into the height of this bump node.
You can see that it's kind of going in the right direction.
It is just way too harsh right now.
A lower the distance to 0.02
and then to get something
that is more rounded.
Also on top, add another math operation
set to power.
been going on for a very low exponents like 0.01
and as you can see that makes the profile much more round on the top
and more steep
at the bottom.
That gets more clear when I actually plugged the bump map
into the normal input of the principal B S D F
and then change it there.
The power operation is a nice and easy way to control the profile of this curve.
For the preview we're working on, I'm going to leave it at that for now.
Next to improve this pattern, I want to introduce some variation.
So I'll add some noise distortion as well.
I do that the same way as always with the linear light operation
and that just adds some more variation that the drops can follow.
Maybe this is a little bit too strong. I'll turn it down to a factor of 0.2.
Next up, I want to add the drops that are actually sitting in place
for these. I can't use the same cornices for the cells
as they are moving around. So I have to create some new governance for these.
But this is going to be a little bit easier than for the routing cells.
Just adding math, note and grab
the Y component from the beginning
And this one I am multiply
and then use the fraction operation as usual.
Let's go for a multiplication with five.
Now here we could also go for a variation in length with a noise
but it won't be as a parent here.
What I do want is a variation in the offset.
So I also add a
add node
and I just use the same offsets for the Iranian droplets
that is not going to be visible
and now we play the animation, you can see that these stick in place.
So that's again take a combined X, Y z known,
use this as the white component
but then the same lane value as the X component
and then we already have the cell U V s fully setting their up. Let's
these are going to be a little bit easier than
the running ones because these can be entirely symmetrical.
So instead of having to squish them on the bottom,
I just simply use a vector math node
To align them in the exact center by subtracting 0.5 in the X&Y component.
And then again adding a length operation
to get the radius
and same thing.
I subtract this length from
value. That's
Let's say 0.25
and that's what I'm going to use later on to combine them with the Iranian droplets.
But here as well I want to add some variation by distorting the coordinates
and I'm actually going to use the exact same noise texture.
That means they will follow the same distortion and fit much nicer together.
So just the same as here right before the length operation are also
put the linear light operation with the same noise
but this one I want to make quite a bit stronger,
let's say
0.7
and this already looks like some nice and noisy pattern of raindrops
for now let's just add them together with the running drops.
So let's take a look at what we have here
for the running drops. We have a mask
That is already clamped to a minimum of zero
but the mask of the sitting drops
can still be negative in the black areas
so we shouldn't just add them on top of each other.
But use a maximum operation
here, I'll take the smooth maximum actually
and now we have a combination of the two mass
but this doesn't look right at all yet.
The sitting drop. It should be completely static
right now. It looks like the two maps are not influencing each other at all.
So first I want to make sure that when
two drops meat they actually increase in height.
So I'll actually also add the maps together
before calculating the maximum.
Now they don't just simply phase through each other.
But now most importantly I also want to animate the sitting droplets.
What I want to do is create a swelling effect so they swell
and then again decrease in size
when they drop runs over them
to do that,
I add a math node
that subtracts from the mask
that way I can change their skill
and this subtraction value,
I want to then drive with the cornice of the surrounding droplets.
So let's go back where we got there. Why component
back here
and take this
into an RgB curves note because I want to be
able to manually control the profile of the swelling effect.
So let's just connect that in there
and now I'm just going to simply use this
as a value.
This is going to be in the completely wrong range.
So don't expect it to work immediately
but that's already the main idea.
So now we have to think a little bit about what those values you mean?
A higher value in the subtraction.
Well actually make the size of these droplets
decrease.
So I want the values in the beginning of a droplet running over it
and in the end
to be higher.
But because that is a little bit un intuitive
with the size,
I just want to use a map range note
and control the range that way.
So when this curve is going to be at a low value,
I want to be mapped to a high value for the subjection.
That's just simply invert this year
By changing one and 0.
And now I can nicely just the profile of the swelling
which is supposed to be
at a low size
at the beginning and end
and then swelling in the middle.
I wanted to very quickly increase in the
beginning and then slowly decrease like this.
And that is already kind of the effect that I'm going for.
Let's take a look at this in combination.
And right now it looks like
once the Iranian drop has passed over the sitting drop,
they completely vanished which is not what I want.
So I have to decrease this subtraction value
to something that still leaves some remaining parts over
something like this.
And as you can see now they nicely swell
with the writing droplets.
It is very nice and animated.
Trade like this to have the different animated parts influencing each other.
So if you take a look at this
in the shaded view with the bump map,
it looks like this
and it is already quite close to what we are going for
next. I want to add some variation in the height.
So that's simply after the power operation
at a multiplication.
The factor I want for the multiplication is a random value for each cell for that.
I can just go back to the cornice of the cells
and let's take a combined X Y. Z. Note
to create the position factories.
So let's see.
I need the white component after the multiplication
and the offset with the animation is done.
So this is the component I need
and to get a different value for each cell.
I just use the snap operation again
and that's going to be my Y. Component.
This component of course increases with the animation
and for the X. Component I already have snapped coordinates
that are created for the different lanes
so I can just use these
And if I now plug this into a white noise texture
I nicely get different values for the different cells.
So let's just take the Iran and value
as the factor for the multiplication of the height
and as you can see that creates some nice variation.
And now actually the only thing left is to make
this look more appealing and actually like a window.
So first I'll just turn up the transmission all the way to one
and now we have to control the roughness.
No I just turn it down to zero
but we also have to create the gradient
they talked about earlier.
So let's now do that.
I want the gradient to be circular within each one of these quarters of the window.
So I'll simply use
another cornet node
and take the generated coordinates from that
two separate
each one of these quarters into one individual cell.
I'll just use a vector math notes. Set to multiply
And multiply the x. and the y component by two.
This conveniently also gives me the opportunity to eliminate the zet component
which I don't need because this is just a simple plain.
Then I just use the fraction operation
and there we go. Already separated the quarters in here.
Next I want to create a gradient from the center
So I just center the coordinates by subtracting 0.5 in the accident.
Why could our action
and then to create the actual gradient?
I want to use a trick that I showed you earlier as well
on this center to coordinate map.
I'll just use the absolute operation
that mirrors the positive value, some of the size for the accent,
the white component
and then
separate them
to combine them to a gradient
by using a smooth maximum operation without any smoothness.
This just gives me
this shape here.
But when I turn up the smoothest,
I can actually achieve some around corners here.
So if I plug this
into a colorado node,
I can nicely define this gradient here
and this still contains this
rectangular shape
without being completely circular.
So now let's use this gradient to create the roughness map.
I just use a map range note
And select the levels for the roughness to be something low like 0.03
in the center and let's just go all the way up to one on the edge.
But when I plug it in it still doesn't look quite as rough as I expected.
The problem is that this gradient does never really reach one
so we just have to
change around the scale of this
and there we go. This is a bit more like what I want to
these droplets however, on the opposite side of the window,
so I want the strength of the bump map
to decrease when the transmission is actually more rough
because there it gets less clear.
So it's again take this gradient
and then just inverted using a subtract note
so then I can just choose it as the strength of the bump map.
This makes it look a little bit better
by tuning down the effect and the wrath of values
and there we go. That is the shader. Pretty much done.
I just want to do one thing
which is
adding a scale node
to change the scale of the pattern
for the style I seen, I was going for some nice big stylized raindrops.
If you want to go for something more realistic,
of course you can go for a smaller scale
or more noise in the pattern
or whatever you think is coherent with the reference you're looking at
but in terms of the work for example,
that is the procedural animated raindrops on the window done.